Revamp prefix account aws (#2218)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/getting-started/prepare-your-provider-account/aws/_index.md

title: Prepare your AWS account
description: Prepare your AWS account to start building your cloud-native developer platform with Giant Swarm.
weight: 10
last_review_date: 2024-05-28
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
user_questions:
  - How do I prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
  - What do I need to do to prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
---

In order to run the Giant Swarm platform in your AWS accounts, several prerequisites must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider for AWS (CAPA).

## Requirements

In AWS environments you can run the management cluster and workload clusters in the same account or in separate accounts. Most of the requirements are related to configure `Identity and Access Management (IAM)` roles and service quotas.

> ![AWS Setup Diagram](aws_onboarding.png)

Author: @paurosello do you know if we have the source?

### Service quotas {#quotas}

AWS establishes default quotas for all your cloud services as described in the [provider documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws_service_limits.html). The following overview lists the quotas that must be adjusted to use the account to operate Giant Swarm clusters.

Adjusting a service quota requires issuing a support case in the [AWS Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home), where a specific entry form is provided for this type of case. Each quota type requires a separate case. When creating these, make sure to be logged in to the right account and select the correct region.

The screenshot below shows an example of a service quota entry form.

![Screenshot](aws-service-limits.png)

Next there is the list of quotas to be modified, grouped by type:

<!-- CAN WE MAKE SAME FOR ALL ACCOUNTS DOES NOT MATTER TYPE OF CLUSTER?-->

> 

Author: CAN WE MAKE THE SAME FOR ALL ACCOUNTS, NOT MATTER THE TYPE OF CLUSTER?

#### 1. Basic role setup {#iam-staff-role-basic}

- Go to the [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles)
subsection of the AWS console and select **Create role**. When asked to
**Select type of trusted entity** choose **Another AWS account**.

- In **Account ID** enter the value `084190472784`.

- **Do not** enable **Require external ID**.

- We strongly recommended to check the option **Require MFA** (multi factor
  authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the
  role, which increases security.

#### 2. Permission setup {#iam-staff-role-permissions}

Select **Create policy** to create another policy. Use the [admin JSON policy](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/master/admin-role/iam-policy.json) file as the policy content. This time, call the policy

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

#### 3. Attach policy to role {#iam-staff-role-policy}

Attach the new `GiantSwarmAdmin` policy to the role you are creating.

#### 4. Name the role {#iam-staff-role-name}

Name this role:

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

## Configure the organization {#configure-org}

> <!-- IS THIS STILL VALID??-->

Author: cc/ @giantswarm/team-phoenix

title: Prepare your AWS account
description: Prepare your AWS account to start building your cloud-native developer platform with Giant Swarm.
weight: 10
last_review_date: 2024-06-14
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
user_questions:
  - How do I prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
  - What do I need to do to prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
---

In this guide, you will find the necessary steps to prepare your AWS accounts to run our platform. There are several requirements must be satisfied to support Cluster API Provider for AWS (CAPA).

## Requirements

In AWS environments, you can run the management and workload clusters in the same account or separate accounts. To help you take the decision read our [multi-account article]({{< relref "/overview/fleet-management/cluster-management/cluster-concepts/multi-account" >}}) where we explain the pros and cons of both approaches. Most requirements are related to configuring _Identity and Access Management (IAM)_ roles and service quotas.

> ![AWS Setup Diagram](aws_onboarding.png)

Author: WDYT?
<img width="681" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-15 at 17 23 47" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/40b456f2-fe43-4cb2-b72b-e2e9dbe6c7a3">

Source -> https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVO2Dh15w=/?moveToWidget=3458764594715037408&cot=14

        - IPv4 CIDR blocks per VPC: **50**
        - Routes per route table: **200**
    - Route 53 Resolver
        - Endpoints per AWS region: **100** (needed if you are creating a [private cluster]({{< relref "/overview/fleet-management/cluster-management/cluster-concepts/private-cluster" >}}))
    - Elastic IP
        - New VPC Elastic IP Address Limit per region: **50** (not needed if you are creating a [private cluster]({{< relref "/overview/fleet-management/cluster-management/cluster-concepts/private-cluster" >}}))
    - Elastic Load Balancers
        - Application and Classic Load Balancers per region: **100**
    - Auto Scaling
        - Auto Scaling Groups per region: **250**
        - Launch Configurations per region: **500**
    - S3
        - Buckets per Account: **1000**
    - EC2 Spot Instances
        - For every primary instance type you tend to use spot instances with, set the limit according to your needs.
    - EC2 Instances
        - m4.xlarge per region: **250**
        - m4.2xlarge per region: **250**
        - m5.2xlarge per region: **250**
        - other instance types to be used as workers: increase accordingly

> ```

Author: I think those are fair values, it does not have impact in cost anyway

__Note__: Please extend the list of EC2 instances to contain the frequently needed types.

When requesting a service quota increase, you will be asked for a description of your use case. Use this text for the following purposes:

```nohighlight
We intend to run multiple Kubernetes clusters in this account, potentially used
by various globally distributed teams. We will be creating and deleting new
clusters frequently.

Every cluster needs its own VPC for security/isolation reasons and its own
Elastic IP address for the NAT gateway.

Every cluster has at least 1 Auto Scaling Group, but can contain multiple ASGs if
multiple instance types are requested as cluster nodes. If we count 50
clusters with up to 5 EC2 instances each, as worker nodes, we need up to 250
ASGs. To update the ASGs in a rolling manner, we need to duplicate the ASGs

> for a short time during the update, hence the 500 Launch Configurations.

Author: > or maybe even use default limits (I mean for CAPA)?

What are those defaults? you mean AWS defaults? those are really low

> for a short time during the update, hence the 500 Launch Configurations.

Reviewer: we still have 1 ASG per machinepool, the change is in the number of subnets

- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-irsa-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/irsa-operator-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-mc-bootstrap-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/mc-bootstrap-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-network-topology-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/network-topology-operator-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-resolver-rules-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/resolver-rules-operator-policy.json)

__Warning__: Remember to replace the `INSTALLATION_NAME` placeholder with the name of your installation when filling the policy name.

![AWS IAM console: Create policy](aws-roles-create-policy.png)

__Note__: All policy names contain the installation name to make easier identifying the policies and avoid conflicts with other installations running within the same account.

> 

Author: [but we do before the manual steps](https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/2218/files#diff-d8c8a411eb739312b4eade8394ff3a925eaf2319c1b87e92473c99af6fa69feaR104). We advocate for running the automation but we still offer the manual steps which also explain what exactly does

#### 2. Create the role metadata {#iam-capa-controller-role-basic}

Now move to the IAM [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection, and hit the __Create role__ button. In the following screen, when asked to _Select the type of trusted entity_, choose _AWS account_.

![AWS IAM console: Create role](aws-roles-create-role.png)

> The __Account ID__ you enter is the ID of the AWS account where the management cluster is running. Could it be the current account in case you are running all your infrastructure in a single account or a different one if you are using separate accounts for management and workload clusters?

Author: I think it is an error of the corrector (Grammarly)

#### 1. Create the admin policy {#iam-staff-policy}

Go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection and select __Create policy__ to set the admin permissions. Use the [admin JSON policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/admin-role/iam-policy.json) file as the policy content. This time, call the policy

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

#### 2. Create the admin role {#iam-staff-role}

Enter again in the [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection of the AWS console and select __Create role__ When asked to __Select type of trusted entity__ choose __AWS account__.

- In __Account ID__ enter the value `084190472784`.
- Don't enable __Require external ID__.
- It 's strongly recommended to check the option __Require MFA__ (multi factor authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the role, which increases security.

#### 3. Attach policy to role {#iam-staff-role-policy}

Attach the newly created `GiantSwarmAdmin` policy to the role you are creating.

#### 4. Name the role {#iam-staff-role-name}

Name this role:

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin

> ```
> 
> ## Step 3: Configure the cluster role identity {#configure-cluster-role-identity}

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```

Giant Swarm staff require access to all management cluster and workload cluster-related AWS accounts, so please repeat the above steps in each account.

## Step 3: Configure the cluster role identity {#configure-cluster-role-identity}
````

> Remember that `default` AWSClusterRoleIdentity is needed but you can additional add more with specific names. (LETS INCLUDE THIS IN CAPZ TOO)

Reviewer 2: Not reviewing this part as it's unfinished. We first have to explain what `AWSClusterRoleIdentity` is, specifically for CAPA, e.g. how the `default` one defines in which AWS account clusters will be created unless otherwise specified.

The number of EC2 instances used as worker nodes is supposed to be scaled
dynamically based on traffic, hence the high numbers of EC2 instances requested.
```

## Step 2: Permissions

There are two types of IAM roles that need to be created in the AWS account.

First, the controller role which is used by the CAPA controller in the management cluster to provision all infrastructure to manage workload clusters.

Second, the staff role is used by Giant Swarm engineers to access the AWS account for support purposes.

Here are the mandatory steps to create the required IAM resources but we advocate to follow one of the [automated options](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites). There you have Terraform or CloudFormation templates to create the necessary IAM roles and policies. Otherwise, follow the manual steps below.

### Controller permissions {#iam-capa-controller-role}

#### 1. Create all policies for the CAPA controller {#iam-capa-controller-policies}

Open the [IAM section](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home) of the AWS console and go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection.

> Our platform needs different permissions to manage various resources on the AWS side. Here is the list of policies that need to be created. Click __Create policy__ and copy the policy content into the JSON editor field. Hit the **Next** button and add the policy name matching the policy link name. Repeat this process for each policy:

Author: ```suggestion
Our platform needs different permissions to manage various resources on the AWS side. Here is the list of policies that need to be created. Click __Create policy__ and copy the policy content into the JSON editor field. Hit the `Next` button and add the policy name matching the policy link name. Repeat this process for each policy:
```

__Warning__: Remember to replace the `INSTALLATION_NAME` placeholder with the name of your installation when filling the policy name.

![AWS IAM console: Create policy](aws-roles-create-policy.png)

__Note__: All policy names contain the installation name to make easier identifying the policies and avoid conflicts with other installations running within the same account.

#### 2. Create the role metadata {#iam-capa-controller-role-basic}

Now move to the IAM [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection, and hit the __Create role__ button. In the following screen, when asked to _Select the type of trusted entity_, choose _AWS account_.

![AWS IAM console: Create role](aws-roles-create-role.png)

The __Account ID__ you enter is the ID of the AWS account where the management cluster is running. Could it be the current account in case you are running all your infrastructure in a single account or a different one if you are using separate accounts for management and workload clusters?

> It is crucial that the __Require external ID__ and __Require MFA__ options remain unchecked!

Author: ```suggestion
It's crucial that the __Require external ID__ and __Require MFA__ options remain unchecked!
```

### Staff permissions {#iam-staff-role}

Finally, we create an IAM role for Giant Swarm support staff to assume in order to
access both AWS accounts. This role must have Giant Swarm's account as a trusted
entity, and we recommend that it enforces multi-factor authentication.

Giant Swarm staff require access to all accounts, so the following steps must be duplicated in both the management cluster and workload cluster accounts.

#### 1. Create the admin policy {#iam-staff-policy}

Go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection and select __Create policy__ to set the admin permissions. Use the [admin JSON policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/admin-role/iam-policy.json) file as the policy content. This time, call the policy

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

#### 2. Create the admin role {#iam-staff-role}

Enter again in the [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection of the AWS console and select __Create role__ When asked to __Select type of trusted entity__ choose __AWS account__.

- In __Account ID__ enter the value `084190472784`.

> - Do not enable __Require external ID__.

Author: ```suggestion
- Don't enable __Require external ID__.
```

> - It is strongly recommended to check the option __Require MFA__ (multi factor authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the role, which increases security.

Author: ```suggestion
- It 's strongly recommended to check the option __Require MFA__ (multi factor authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the role, which increases security.
```

Name this role:

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

## Step 3: Configure the cluster role identity {#configure-cluster-role-identity}

Remember that `default` AWSClusterRoleIdentity is needed but you can additional add more with specific names. (LETS INCLUDE THIS IN CAPZ TOO)

```need to be updated
When you want to create a new Cluster API workload cluster in a new AWS account you need to create a CR AWSClusterRoleIdentity which will reference the role in the new AWS Account.

apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AWSClusterRoleIdentity
metadata:
  labels:
    cluster.x-k8s.io/watch-filter: capi
  name: ${ROLE_NAME}
spec:
  allowedNamespaces:
    list: null
    selector: {}
  roleARN: ${ROLE_ARN}
  sourceIdentityRef:
    kind: AWSClusterControllerIdentity
    name: default
Where:

${ROLE_NAME} is a short unique name referencing AWS account (ie: development, sandbox or staging2)
${ROLE_ARN} is full ARN of the role created in previous step with giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites repository.
This CR needs to be created only once for each AWS Account. It can be then referenced in the cluster-aws repo in the value aws.awsClusterRoleIdentityName.

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

> **Note**: In case you are working with a Giant Swarm partner, you might not have access to the platform API. In that case, please provide the role ARNs values, capa controller and staff, to your partner contact.

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: In case you are working with a Giant Swarm partner, you might not have access to the platform API. In that case, please provide the role ARNs values, CAPA controller and staff to your partner contact.
```

We intend to run multiple Kubernetes clusters in this account, potentially used
by various globally distributed teams. We will be creating and deleting new
clusters frequently.

Every cluster needs its own VPC for security/isolation reasons and its own
Elastic IP address for the NAT gateway.

Every cluster has at least 1 Auto Scaling Group, but can contain multiple ASGs if
multiple instance types are requested as cluster nodes. If we count 50
clusters with up to 5 EC2 instances each, as worker nodes, we need up to 250
ASGs. To update the ASGs in a rolling manner, we need to duplicate the ASGs
for a short time during the update, hence the 500 Launch Configurations.

The number of EC2 instances used as worker nodes is supposed to be scaled
dynamically based on traffic, hence the high numbers of EC2 instances requested.
```

## Step 2: Permissions

There are two types of IAM roles that need to be created in the AWS account.

First, the controller role which is used by the CAPA controller in the management cluster to provision all infrastructure to manage workload clusters.

Second, the staff role is used by Giant Swarm engineers to access the AWS account for support purposes.

> Here are the mandatory steps to create the required IAM resources but we advocate to follow one of the [automated options](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites). There you have terraform or cloudformation templates to create the necessary IAM roles and policies. Otherwise, follow the manual steps below.

Author: ```suggestion
Here are the mandatory steps to create the required IAM resources but we advocate to follow one of the [automated options](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites). There you have Terraform or CloudFormation templates to create the necessary IAM roles and policies. Otherwise, follow the manual steps below.
```

### Controller permissions {#iam-capa-controller-role}

> #### 1. Create all policies for the capa controller {#iam-capa-controller-policies}

Author: ```suggestion
#### 1. Create all policies for the CAPA controller {#iam-capa-controller-policies}
```

Open the [IAM section](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home) of the AWS console and go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection.

> Our platform needs different permissions to manage a variety of resources in AWS side. Here is the list of policies that need to be created. Click **Create policy** and copy the content of the policy into the JSON editor field. Hit the **Next** button and add the name of the policy matching the policy link name. Repeat this process for each policy:

Author: ```suggestion
Our platform needs different permissions to manage various resources on the AWS side. Here is the list of policies that need to be created. Click __Create policy__ and copy the policy content into the JSON editor field. Hit the **Next** button and add the policy name matching the policy link name. Repeat this process for each policy:
```

- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-mc-bootstrap-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/mc-bootstrap-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-network-topology-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/network-topology-operator-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-resolver-rules-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/resolver-rules-operator-policy.json)

__Warning__: Remember to replace the `INSTALLATION_NAME` placeholder with the name of your installation when filling the policy name.

![AWS IAM console: Create policy](aws-roles-create-policy.png)

__Note__: All policy names contain the installation name to make easier identifying the policies and avoid conflicts with other installations running within the same account.

#### 2. Create the role metadata {#iam-capa-controller-role-basic}

> Now move to the IAM [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection, and hit the **Create role** button. In the following screen, when asked to _Select type of trusted entity_ chose _AWS account_.

Author: ```suggestion
Now move to the IAM [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection, and hit the __Create role__ button. In the following screen, when asked to _Select the type of trusted entity_, choose _AWS account_.
```

![AWS IAM console: Create role](aws-roles-create-role.png)

> The **Account ID** you enter is the ID of the AWS account where management cluster is running. Could it be the current account in case you running all your infrastructure in a single account or different one if you are using separate accounts for management and workload clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
The __Account ID__ you enter is the ID of the AWS account where the management cluster is running. Could it be the current account in case you are running all your infrastructure in a single account or a different one if you are using separate accounts for management and workload clusters?
```

> It is important that the **Require external ID** and **Require MFA** options remain unchecked!

Author: ```suggestion
It is crucial that the __Require external ID__ and __Require MFA__ options remain unchecked!
```

Then, please go ahead and proceed to the next step.

#### 3. Attach all policies to role {#iam-capa-controller-role-policy}

> Now you need to go through all the policies created before and attach to the node. Search for installation name, select the policies and hit the **Next** button.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, you must go through all the policies created before and attach them to the node. Search for the installation name, select the policies and hit the __Next__ button.
```

![AWS IAM console: Attach policies](aws-roles-attach-policy.png)

#### 4. Name the role {#iam-capa-controller-role-name}

The last step of role creation requires you to set a name for the role. Same as with the policies, please use the name changing the INSTALLATION_NAME placeholder to the name of your installation.

```nohighlight
giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-capa-controller
```

![AWS IAM console: Review](aws-roles-review.png)

__Note__: The role name also contains the installation name to make easier identifying across other roles and avoid conflicts with other installations running within the same account.

### Staff permissions {#iam-staff-role}

Finally, we create an IAM role for Giant Swarm support staff to assume in order to
access both AWS accounts. This role must have Giant Swarm's account as a trusted
entity, and we recommend that it enforces multi-factor authentication.

> Giant Swarm staff require access to **all** accounts, so **the following steps must

Author: ```suggestion
Giant Swarm staff require access to all accounts, so the following steps must be duplicated in both the management cluster and workload cluster accounts.
```

> be duplicated in both the management cluster and workload cluster accounts**.

Author: ```suggestion
```

#### 1. Create the admin policy {#iam-staff-policy}

> Go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection and select **Create policy** to set the admin permissions. Use the [admin JSON policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/admin-role/iam-policy.json) file as the policy content. This time, call the policy

Author: ```suggestion
Go to the [Policies](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/policies) subsection and select __Create policy__ to set the admin permissions. Use the [admin JSON policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/admin-role/iam-policy.json) file as the policy content. This time, call the policy
```

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

#### 2. Create the admin role {#iam-staff-role}

> Enter again in the [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection of the AWS console and select **Create role**. When asked to **Select type of trusted entity** choose **AWS account**.

Author: ```suggestion
Enter again in the [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection of the AWS console and select **Create role**. When asked to __Select type of trusted entity__ choose __AWS account__.
```

> - In **Account ID** enter the value `084190472784`.

Author: ```suggestion
- In __Account ID__ enter the value `084190472784`.
```

> - **Do not** enable **Require external ID**.

Author: ```suggestion
- Do not enable __Require external ID__.
```

> - It is strongly recommended to check the option **Require MFA** (multi factor authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the role, which increases security.

Author: ```suggestion
- It is strongly recommended to check the option __Require MFA__ (multi factor authentication). This adds an extra authentication step for users to assume the role, which increases security.
```

Name this role:

```nohighlight
GiantSwarmAdmin
```

## Step 3: Configure the cluster role identity {#configure-cluster-role-identity}

Remember that `default` AWSClusterRoleIdentity is needed but you can additional add more with specific names. (LETS INCLUDE THIS IN CAPZ TOO)

```need to be updated
When you want to create a new Cluster API workload cluster in a new AWS account you need to create a CR AWSClusterRoleIdentity which will reference the role in the new AWS Account.

apiVersion: infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: AWSClusterRoleIdentity
metadata:
  labels:
    cluster.x-k8s.io/watch-filter: capi
  name: ${ROLE_NAME}
spec:
  allowedNamespaces:
    list: null
    selector: {}
  roleARN: ${ROLE_ARN}
  sourceIdentityRef:
    kind: AWSClusterControllerIdentity
    name: default
Where:

${ROLE_NAME} is a short unique name referencing AWS account (ie: development, sandbox or staging2)
${ROLE_ARN} is full ARN of the role created in previous step with giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites repository.
This CR needs to be created only once for each AWS Account. It can be then referenced in the cluster-aws repo in the value aws.awsClusterRoleIdentityName.
```

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

title: Prepare your AWS account
description: Prepare your AWS account to start building your cloud-native developer platform with Giant Swarm.
weight: 10
last_review_date: 2024-06-14
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-docs
user_questions:
  - How do I prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
  - What do I need to do to prepare my AWS account for the cloud-native developer platform?
---

In this guide, you will find the necessary steps to prepare your AWS accounts to run our platform, including Cluster API Provider for AWS (CAPA).

## Requirements

In AWS environments, you can run the management and workload clusters in the same account or separate accounts. To help you take the decision, please read our [multi-account article]({{< relref "/overview/fleet-management/cluster-management/cluster-concepts/multi-account" >}}) where we explain the pros and cons of both approaches. Most requirements are related to configuring _Identity and Access Management (IAM)_ roles and service quotas.

![AWS Setup Diagram](aws_onboarding.png)

> You will need access to AWS console or having AWS CLI installed and pointing to the right account in order to perform the following steps.

Author: ```suggestion
To perform the following steps, you will need access to the AWS console or have AWS CLI installed and pointed to the right account.
```

- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-network-topology-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/network-topology-operator-policy.json)
- [giantswarm-${INSTALLATION_NAME}-resolver-rules-operator-policy](https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm-aws-account-prerequisites/raw/master/capa-controller-role/resolver-rules-operator-policy.json)

__Warning__: Remember to replace the `INSTALLATION_NAME` placeholder with the name of your installation when filling the policy name.

![AWS IAM console: Create policy](aws-roles-create-policy.png)

__Note__: All policy names contain the installation name to make easier identifying the policies and avoid conflicts with other installations running within the same account.

#### 2. Create the role metadata {#iam-capa-controller-role-basic}

Now move to the IAM [Roles](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/roles) subsection, and hit the __Create role__ button. In the following screen, when asked to _Select the type of trusted entity_, choose _AWS account_.

![AWS IAM console: Create role](aws-roles-create-role.png)

> The __Account ID__ you enter is the ID of the AWS account where the management cluster is running. Could it be the current account in case you are running all your infrastructure in a single account or a different one if you are using separate accounts for management and workload clusters?

Author: ```suggestion
The _Account ID_ you need to enter is the AWS account where the management cluster runs. In case you run all your clusters in a single account, there is no need to change it, but if your management cluster runs in a separate account, you need to use that one for `Another AWS account` option.
```
